Doppler experiment (#77)
SanliFaez/OS4Physicists: CourseDevelopment/Week2/Lecture2.md

## Goal: setting up a collaborative environment
After this week, one is familiar with the structure of a collaborative environment on Github or Gitlab, and can set a new one up.

![Frontpage](../Week2/Chapter2.jpg)

## Lecture: Week 2 

This week's lecture will have two parts. 

1. **Good enough data analysis and reporting** 
    + 30-40 minutes lecture on best practices for setting up a collaborative research environment based on the course of Barbara Vreede and [this article](https://journals.plos.org/ploscompbiol/article?id=10.1371/journal.pcbi.1005510&ref=https://githubhelp.com)

2. **Project management**: 
    + Project management and using issues/labels, introduction to Getting Things Done (GTD) boards. 
    + Some tips and suggestions effective collaboration and project managment on git platforms

## Tutorial: Week 2
+ During the dutorial, students will be given a complex coding task to complete in multiple teams, starting from forking an incomplete repository and then making the complete project work as a group! 

> + To make sure that every student practices the basic git commands, every student is asked to to run the final program on their PC

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ To make sure that every student practices the basic git commands, every student is asked to run the final program on their PC
```

### Tutorial format
**Assignment objective: learning about collaborative project development from practice**

The programming assignment will be based on analysing experimental data with the laptop sound card and doing an experiment with Doppler shift. Elements of the code are provided to the students in a [poorly-documented directory](../Week2/mycode). Students are divided into 4 teams of about 20+ and each team should make the code useful for analyzing a new measurement. The main goal is to create a well documented repository that works on every individual PC.

**Assignment preparation**

>   + Students have to discuss in a teams on distribution of task, timing of their execution and how they are working and communication with each other. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  + Students have to discuss in their teams on distribution of task, timing of their work, and how they will communicate during the work. 
```

  + Each team should present a code and code structure that can analyze newly recorded data in the shortest time and present a final result that has the highest accuracy.

>   + Each team will reserve one fresh laptop for the finale,  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  + Each team will reserve one fresh (i.e. no specific preparation) laptop for the finale,  
```
